Add documentation for filesystem cache (#41080)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/operations/storing-data.md

</clickhouse>
```

## Using local cache {#using-local-cache}

It is possible to configure cache over disks in storage configuration starting from version 22.3. For versions 22.3 - 22.7 cache is supported only for `s3` disk type. For versions >= 22.8 cache is supported for any disk type: S3, Azure, Local, Encrypted, etc. Cache uses `LRU` cache policy.

> Example of configuration for versions later or equal to 21.8:

Reviewer: 22.8

``` xml
<clickhouse>
    <storage_configuration>
        <disks>
            <s3>
                <type>s3</type>
                <endpoint>...</endpoint>
                ... s3 configuration ...
            </s3>
            <cache>
                <type>cache</type>
                <disk>s3</disk>
                <path>/s3_cache/</path>
                <max_size>10000000</max_size>
            </cache>
        </disks>
    </storage_configuration>
```

> Example of configuration for versions earlier than 21.8:

Reviewer: 22.8

``` xml
<clickhouse>
    <storage_configuration>
        <disks>
            <s3>
                <type>s3</type>
                <endpoint>...</endpoint>
                ... s3 configuration ...
                <data_cache_enabled>1</data_cache_enabled>
                <data_cache_size>10000000</data_cache_size>
            </s3>
        </disks>
    </storage_configuration>
```

Cache **configuration settings**:

> - `path` - path to cache Default: None, this settings is obligatory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `path` - path to cache. Default: None, this setting is obligatory.
```

> - `max_size` - size of cache in bytes Default: None, this settings is obligatory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `max_size` - size of the cache in bytes. Default: None, this setting is obligatory.
```

> - `cache_on_write_operations` - turn on `write-through` cache. Default: `false`. The `write-through` cache is enabled if `cache_on_write_operations` is `true` and user setting `filesystem`.

Reviewer: > and user setting `filesystem`.

Didn't understand.

- `enable_filesystem_query_cache_limit` - allow to limit the size of cache which is downloaded within each query (depends on user setting `max_query_cache_size`). Default: `false`.

- `enable_cache_hits_threshold` - a number which defines the number of times some data needs to be read before it will be cached. Default: `0`, e.g. the data is cached at the first attempt to read it.

- `do_not_evict_index_and_mark_files` - do not evict small frequently used files according to cache policy. Default: `true`.

> - `max_file_segment_size` - a max size for a single cache file. Default: `100 Mb`.

Reviewer: Can you write it literally like `100 Mb` with whitespace in the config? Otherwise please correct it.

> - `max_elements` a limit for a number of cache files.

Reviewer: Default?

- `max_query_cache_size` - a limit for the cache size, which can be written to local cache storage. Requires enabled `enable_filesystem_query_cache_limit` in cache configuration. Default: `false`.

- `skip_download_if_exceeds_query_cache` - allows to change the behaviour of setting `max_query_cache_size`. Default: `true`. If this setting is turned on and cache download limit during query was reached, no more cache will be downloaded to cache storage. If this setting is turned off and cache download limit during query was reached, cache will still be written by evicting previously written within current query cache data. E.g. second behaviour allows to preserve `last recentltly used` behaviour.

* Cache configuration settings and cache query settings correspond to the latest ClickHouse version, for earlier versions something might not be supported.

Cache **system tables**:

- `system.filesystem_cache` - system tables which shows current state of cache.

- `system.filesystem_cache_log` - system table which shows detailed cache usage per query. Requires `enable_filesystem_cache_log` setting to be `true`.

Cache **commands**:

- `SYSTEM DROP FILESYSTEM CACHE (<path>) (ON CLUSTER)`

> - `SHOW CACHES` -- show list of caches which were configured on the server.

Reviewer: The name of this system command is strange, I'd expect it will show all different cache types, but most likely it is only for filesystem caches.

Author: Agree, I can change to `SHOW FILESYSTEM CACHES`, should be ok?

Author: and `DESCRIBE CACHE` -> `DESCRIBE FILESYSTEM CACHE`?

Reviewer: Yes, we can do it in a separate PR.
